# Polyp Segmentation Using Unet

This repository contains code for polyp segmentation using the U-Net architecture. The U-Net model is a popular architecture for semantic segmentation tasks, and it has been widely used for medical image segmentation, including polyp segmentation.

## Model Description

The U-Net model used in this project is implemented in Python using the Keras library with TensorFlow as the backend. The model architecture consists of an encoder-decoder structure with skip connections, which allows for capturing both local and global context information. The Residual Block is used as the basic building block of the model.

The U-Net architecture consists of two main parts: the contracting path (encoder) and the expanding path (decoder). The contracting path captures the context information and reduces the spatial dimensions, while the expanding path recovers the spatial information and generates the segmentation mask.

The model has been trained on a dataset of polyp images and achieved a validation accuracy of 92.46%.

## Dataset

The dataset used for training the model is the Kvasir-SEG Dataset reference from [Real-Time Polyp Detection, Localisation and Segmentation in Colonoscopy Using Deep Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.07631)

Quick download link:

- [Train Dataset](https://drive.google.com/file/d/17sUo2dLcwgPdO_fD4ySiS_4BVzc3wvwA/view)
- [Validate Dataset](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1us5iOMWVh_4LAiACM-LQa73t1pLLPJ7l/view)

## Requirements

    pip install -r requirements.txt

## Streamlit App

The model has been deployed as a web app using Streamlit. The app allows the user to upload an image and view the segmentation mask generated by the model.
You can access the live Streamlit [here](https://polyp-segmentation-keishi.streamlit.app)
